# Preface（序言） to 'How the other half thinks: Adventures in mathematical reasoning'

## A

Occasionally, in some difficult _musical compositions_, there are beautiful, but easy
parts-parts so simple a beginner could play them. So it is with mathematics as
well. There are some discoveries in advanced mathematics that do not depend on
specialized knowledge, not even on algebra,geometry,or trigonometry. Instead
they may involve, at most, a little _arithmetic_, such as 'the sum of two odd numbers
is even', and common sense. Each of the eight chapters in this book illustrates this
phenomenon. Anyone can understand every step in the reasoning.

The thinking in each chapter uses at most only elementary arithmetic, and
sometimes not even that. _Thus all readers will have the chance to participate in a
mathematical experience, to appreciate the beauty of mathematics_, and to become
familiar with its logical, yet _intuitive_, style of thinking.

??? note "note"

    musical composition：音乐作品；音乐创作
    
    arithmetic：n.adj.算术（的）

    intuitive：adj.直觉的；易懂的

## B

One of my purposes in writing this book is to give readers who haven't had the
opportunity to see and enjoy real mathematics the chance to appreciate the
mathematical way of thinking.I want to reveal not only some of the fascinating
discoveries,but,more importantly,the reasoning behind them.

In that respect,this book differs from most books on mathematics written for the
general public.Some present the lives of colorful mathematicians.Others describe
important applications of mathematics. _Yet others go into mathematical procedures,
but assume that the reader** is adept in **using algebra._

??? note "note"

    Yet others go into mathematical procedures, but assume that the reader is adept in using algebra.  
    还有一些是数学的步骤，但前提是假设读者能熟练使用代数
    
    assume：v.假定，假设；认为
    
    be adept in：精通于，熟练掌握...  
    同义替换：expert at、be good with

## C

I hope this book will help bridge that _notorious_ gap that separates the two cultures:
the humanities and the sciences,or should I say the right brain (intuitive)and the
left brain (analytical,numerical).As the chapters will illustrate,mathematics is not
restricted to the analytical and numerical;intuition plays a significant role._**The
alleged gap** can be narrowed or completely overcome by anyone,**in part because**
each of us is far from using the full capacity of either side of the brain_.To illustrate
our human potential,I _cite_ a structural engineer who is an artist,an electrical
engineer who is an opera singer,an opera singer who published mathematical
research,and a mathematician who publishes short stories.

??? note "note"
    
    notorious：adj.声名狼藉的，臭名昭著的  
    同义替换：infamous、disreputable：adj.名声不好的，不正经的  
    reputation：n.名誉，名声

    the alleged gap：所谓的差距  
    allege：v.(未经证实地）宣称，指控

    narrow：adj.狭窄的；狭隘的；v.（人眼）眯起来；使变窄；压缩；n.海峡；狭窄部分  
    It's hard to narrow it down to just one.很难把范围缩小到一个

    in part：部分地  
    常见位置：  
    * 句中：This success was in part the result of careful planning.  
    * 与`because`等连词连用：He failed, in part because he was overconfident.

    cite：v.引用；引证；传唤；n.引用，引文

## D

_Other scientists have written books to explain their fields to non-scientists, but have
necessarily had to _omit_ the mathematics, although it provides the foundation of their
theories._ The reader must remain a tantalized spectator rather than an involved
participant, since the appropriate language for describing the details in much of
science is mathematics, whether the subject is expanding universe, subatomic
particles, or chromosomes. Though the broad outline of a scientific theory can be
_sketched_ intuitively, when a part of the physical universe is finally understood, its
description often looks like a page in a mathematics text.

??? note "note"

    omit：v.省略，忽略

    sketch：v.素描；简述

## E

_Still, the non-mathematical reader can go far in understanding mathematical
reasoning._ This book presents the details that illustrate the mathematical style
of thinking, which involves _sustained_, step-by-step analysis, experiments, and
insights. You will turn these pages much more slowly than when reading a novel
or a newspaper. It may help to have a pencil and paper ready to check claims and
**carry out** experiments.

??? note "note"
    
    Still, the non-mathematical reader can go far in understanding mathematical reasoning.  
    然而，非数学读者在理解数学推理方面可以走得更远。

    reasoning：n.v.推理；以理相劝

    sustain：v.维持，持续

    carry out experiments：进行实验

## F

As I wrote, I kept in mind two types of readers: those who enjoyed mathematics
until they were **turned off by** an unpleasant episode, usually around fifth grade, and
mathematics _aficionados_, who will find much that is new throughout the book.

??? note "note"

    turn off by：使不感兴趣，使厌烦；关闭电器

    episode：n.经历，事件；插曲

    aficionado：n.狂热爱好者，粉丝

This book also serves readers who simply want to sharpen their analytical skills
Many careers,such as law and medicine,require extended,precise analysis.Each
chapter offers practice in following a sustained and closely argued line of thought.
That mathematics can develop this skill is shown by these two testimonials:

## G

A physician wrote,'The discipline of analytical thought processes [in mathematics]
prepared me extremely well for medical school. In medicine one is faced with a
problem which must be thoroughly analyzed before a solution can be found. The
process is similar to doing mathematics.'

A lawyer made the same point,'Although I had no background in law - not even
one political science course - I did well at one of the best law schools. I _attribute_
much of my success there to having learned, through the study of mathematics, 
and, **in particular**, theorems, how to analyze complicated principles. Lawyers who
have studied mathematics can master the legal principles in a way that most others
cannot.'

??? note "note"

    attribute：v.把...归因于；认为...是；n.属性，特质；定语  
    同义替换：ascribe to：把...归因于；认为...是
    
    in particular：特别是，尤其是    

I hope you will share my _delight_ in watching as simple, even naive, questions
lead to _remarkable_ solutions and purely theoretical discoveries find _unanticipated_
applications.

??? note "note"

    delight：v.n.（使）高兴

    remark：n.言论，评论；引人注目；v.谈论  
    remarkable：adj.引人注目的，非凡的  
    同义替换：extraordinary、excellent、significant、prominent、wonder

    unanticipated：adj.意料之外的  
    anticipate：v.预料，期望；在期限内履行（义务），偿还（债务）

---

**Questions 27-34**

Reading Passage 3 has seven sections,A-G.

Which section contains the following information?

Write the correct letter,A-G,in boxes 27-34 on your answer sheet.

**NB** You may use any letter more than once.

**27** **a reference to** books that assume a lack of mathematical knowledge

**28** the way in which this is not a typical book about mathematics

**29** personal examples of being helped by mathematics

**30** examples of people who each had abilities that seemed incompatible

**31** mention of different focuses of books about mathematics

**32** a contrast between reading this book and reading other kinds of publication

**33** a claim that the whole of the book is accessible to everybody

**34** a reference to different categories of **intended readers** of this book

??? note "note"

    a **reference** to books that assume a lack of mathematical knowledge  
    文中**提及**的那些假设读者缺乏数学知识的书  
    reference：n.参考；引用，提及；推荐信；adj.参考的，用于查阅的；文献索引的；v.提及；引用，参照（某书或某作者）
    
    intended readers：目标读者

**Questions 35-40**

Complete the sentences below.

Choose **ONE WORD ONLY** from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 35-40 on your answer sheet.

**35** Some areas of both music and mathematics are suitable for someone who is a ... .

**36** It is sometimes possible to understand advanced mathematics using no more than a limited knowledge of ... .

**37** The writer intends to show that mathematics requires ... thinking, as well as analytical skills.

**38** Some books written by ... have had to **leave out** the mathematics that is central to their theories.

**39** The writer advises non-mathematical readers to perform ... while reading the book.

**40** A lawyer found that studying ... helped even more than other areas of mathematics in the study of law.

??? note "note"

    leave out：不包括，不提及，不纳入
    
## 📌 Answer

??? success "Click here to show"

    * 27 D
    * 28 B
    * 29 G
    * 20 C
    * 31 B
    * 32 E
    * 33 A
    * 34 F
    * 35 beginner
    * 36 arithmetic
    * 37 intuitive
    * 38 scientists
    * 39 experiments
    * 40 theorems